Forgot your Password × Provide your account email address to receive an email to reset your password. Email Submit Home SUPPORT Wemo Support Ending – What You Need to Know Wemo Support Ending – What You Need to Know July 10, 2025 After careful consideration, we have made the difficult decision to end technical support for older Wemo products, effective January 31, 2026\. After this date, several Wemo products will no longer be controllable through the Wemo app. Any features that rely on cloud connectivity, including remote access and voice assistant integrations, will no longer work. Over the last decade, since Belkin first launched Wemo in 2011, we’ve been committed to providing consumers with innovative, simple-to-use accessories for a seamless smart home experience. However, as technology evolves, we must focus our resources on different parts of the Belkin business. We acknowledge and deeply appreciate the support and enthusiasm for Wemo over the last several years. We are proud of what we’ve accomplished in the smart home space and are grateful to our customers for welcoming Wemo into their homes. We understand this change may disrupt your routines, and we sincerely apologize for the inconvenience. If your Wemo product is still under warranty on or after January 31, 2026, you may be eligible for a partial refund. Refund requests will not be processed before that date. For full details on eligibility, the refund process, affected products, and FAQs can be found below. List of Affected Products List of Non-Affected Products Questions and Answers Q: When will my Wemo devices stop working? On January 31, 2026, any features that rely on cloud connectivity (Google Home, Alexa, Wemo app), including remote access and voice assistant integrations will no longer work. Devices configured with Apple HomeKit before this date will continue to function via HomeKit local control without requiring Wemo cloud services or app. NOTE: This shutdown does not affect the functionality of Wemo’s Thread-based products – model numbers WLS0503, WSC010, WSP100, WDC010 – which will continue to function as they do today through HomeKit. A list of affected products can be found here. Q: Will anything happen to my Wemo devices before the shutdown date? No. Your Wemo devices will continue to function normally and will remain accessible using the Wemo App and 3rd party integrated services during the period before the shutdown date. Q: What will happen to my Wemo devices after the shutdown date? After the Wemo cloud service is shut down, any features that rely on cloud connectivity (Google Home, Alexa, Wemo app), including remote access and voice assistant integrations will no longer work. NOTE: Wemo products configured for use with Apple HomeKit prior to January 31, 2026 will continue to function via HomeKit in the absence of Wemo cloud services and the Wemo app. This shutdown does not affect the functionality of Wemo’s Thread-based products – model numbers WLS0503, WSC010, WSP100, WDC010 – which will continue to function as they do today through HomeKit. Q: What will happen to the Wemo app installed on my smart device? The Wemo app will no longer be updated after January 31, 2026, and can manually be removed from your smart device. Q: Can I still get support with my Wi-Fi Wemo Products? Belkin will continue to provide technical support and troubleshooting assistance for your Wi-Fi based Wemo products until January 31, 2026\. Q: How does the shutdown affect Wemo products with HomeKit? Wemo products configured for use with Apple HomeKit prior to January 31, 2026 will continue to function via HomeKit in the absence of Wemo cloud services and the Wemo app. This shutdown does not affect the functionality of Wemo’s Thread-based products – model numbers WLS0503, WSC010, WSP100, WDC010 – which will continue to function as they do today through HomeKit. Q: I have Wemo devices throughout my home – what are my options? If your Wemo device supports HomeKit, you can continue using it with the Home app. If your device is still under warranty and you have proof of purchase, you may be eligible for a partial refund beginning January 31, 2026\. NOTE: Wemo products configured for use with Apple HomeKit prior to January 31, 2026 will continue to function via HomeKit in the absence of Wemo cloud services and the Wemo app. This shutdown does not affect the functionality of Wemo’s Thread-based products – model numbers WLS0503, WSC010, WSP100, WDC010 – which will continue to function as they do today through HomeKit. Q: Can I continue to use my Wi-Fi based Wemo products with my Amazon Alexa or Google Home services? No. Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa frequently rely on cloud services to manage smart home devices. Once the Wemo cloud is shut down, any features that rely on cloud connectivity, including remote access and voice assistant integrations will no longer work. Q: What should I do with my out-of-warranty Wemo devices when the Wemo Cloud Server is shut down? Wemo products configured for use with Apple HomeKit prior to January 31, 2026 will continue to function via HomeKit in the absence of Wemo cloud services and the Wemo app. For any Wemo devices you have that are out of warranty, will not work with HomeKit or if you are unable to use HomeKit, we recommend disposing of these devices at an authorized e-waste recycling center. Wemo Devices Affected by the Shutdown The following devices will be affected by the Wemo services shutdown and will no longer be controllable through the Wemo app or 3rd party services as of January 31, 2026\. SKUS Description Last Sold Units Date Warranty HomeKit-Compatible F7C031 Wemo Link August 2015 2-Year No F7C046 Wemo Humidifier December 2015 3-Year No F7C045 Wemo CrockPot April 2016 1-Year No F7C048 Wemo Heater B June 2016 3-Year No F7C049 Wemo Air Purifier July 2016 3-Year No F7C047 Wemo Heater A September 2016 3-Year No F7C050 Wemo Coffee Maker (Mr. Coffee) December 2016 1-Year No F8J007 Wi-Fi Baby Monitor June 2017 1-Year No F5Z0489 Wemo LED Lighting Bundle September 2017 2-Year No F7C028 Wemo Motion Sensor September 2017 2-Year No F5Z0340 Wemo Switch + Motion Sensor October 2017 2-Year No F7C043 Wemo Maker Module November 2017 2-Year No F7C033 Wemo Zigbee Bulb, E27 March 2018 2-Year No F7C061 Wemo Insight v2 July 2018 1-Year No F7C027 Wemo Switch January 2019 2-Year No F7C062 Wemo Light Switch v2 November 2019 1-Year No F7C029 Wemo Insight June 2020 2-Year No WLS0403 Wemo Smart Light Switch 3-Way September 2021 3-Year Yes WSP070 Wemo Mini Smart Plug July 2022 3-Year No WDS060 Wemo Wi-Fi Smart Light Switch w/ Dimmer September 2022 3-Year Yes WLS040 Wemo Smart Light Switch September 2022 3-Year Yes F7C064 Wemo HomeKit September 2022 1-Year Yes F7C059 Wemo Dimmer Light Switch November 2022 1-Year Yes F7C063 Wemo Mini Plugin Switch December 2022 3-Year Yes F7C030 Wemo Light Switch December 2022 2-Year No WSP090 Wemo Outdoor Plug May 2023 3-Year Yes WSP080 Wemo Mini Smart Plug November 2023 3-Year Yes Wemo Devices not Affected by the Shutdown The following Thread-based Wemo devices are not affected by the Wemo cloud service shutdown. These devices will continue to function as they do today through HomeKit. Model Number Wemo Device Name WLS0503 Wemo Smart Light Switch 3-Way WSC010 Wemo Stage Smart Scene Controller WSP100 Wemo Smart Plug with Thread WDC010 Wemo Smart Video Doorbell Camera Was this support article useful? YES NO Feedback × Comments Submit Cancel Additional Support Questions? Search Again Product replacement form Most of our products can be easily replaced by completing our product replacement form. Click Here Live Chat A customer advocate will answer your questions. Live Chat Phone Have questions about our Belkin products? Contact our Support Team. Click Here Subscribe Today Signup for emails and text messages to be among the first to hear about new Belkin products and special deals. Click Here Remove Product? Are you sure you want to remove the following product from the cart? Cancel Yes