Hacker Newsnew | past | comments | ask | show | jobs | submitloginLaunch HN: Leaping (YC W25) – Self-Improving Voice AI33 points by akyshnik 2 hours ago | hide | past | favorite | 12 commentsHey HN, I'm Arkadiy from Leaping AI (https://leapingai.com). Leaping lets you build voice AI agents in a multi-stage, graph-like format that makes testing and improvement much easier. By evaluating each stage of a call, we can trace errors and regressions to a particular stage. Then we autonomously vary the prompt for that stage and A/B test it, allowing agents to self-improve over time.You can talk to one of our bots directly at https://leapingai.com, and there’s a demo video at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xSajXYJmxW4.Large companies are understandably reluctant to have AI start picking up their phone calls—the technology kind of works, but often not very well. If they do take the plunge, they often end up spending months tuning the prompts for just one use-case, and sometimes never even end up releasing the voice bot.The problem is two-sided: it's non-trivial to specify the exact way a bot should behave using plain language, and it's tedious to ensure the LLM always follows your instructions the way you intended them.Existing voice AI solutions are a pain to set up for complex use cases. They require months of prompting all edge cases before going live, and then months of monitoring and improving prompting afterwards. We do that better than human prompters, and much faster, by running a continuous analysis + testing loop.Our tech is roughly divided into three subcomponents: core library, voice server, and self-improvement logic. Core library models and executes the multi-stage (think n8n-style) voice agents. For the voice server we are using the ol’ reliable cascading way of STT->LLM->TTS. We tried out the voice-to-voice models, and although they felt really great to talk to, function-calling performance was expectedly much worse, so we are still waiting for them to get better.The self-improvement works by first taking conversation metrics and evaluation results to produce ‘feedback’, i.e. specific ideas how the voice agent setup could be improved. After enough feedback is collected, we trigger a run of a specialized self-improvement agent. It is a cursor-style AI with access to various tools that changes the main voice agent. It can rewrite prompts, configure a stage to use a summarized conversation instead of a full one, and more. Each iteration produces a new snapshot of the agent, enabling us to route a small part of the traffic to it and promote it to production if things look ok. This loop can be set to run without any human involvement, thus making agents self-improve.Leaping is use-case agnostic, but we currently focus on inbound customer support (travel, retail, real estate, etc.) and lead pre-qualification (medicare, home services, performance marketing) since we have a lot of success stories there.We started out in Germany since that’s where we were in university, but initially growth was challenging. We decided to target enterprise customers right away and they showed reluctance to adopt voice AI as the front-door ‘face’ of their company. Additionally, for an enterprise with thousands of calls daily, it is infeasible to monitor all the calls and tune agents manually. To address their very valid concerns, we put all effort into reliability—and still haven’t gotten around to offering self-serve access, which is one reason we don’t have fixed pricing yet. (Also, with some clients we have outcome-based pricing, i.e. you pay nothing for calls that didn't convert a lead, only the ones that did.)Things picked up momentum ever since we got into YC and moved to the US, but the cautious sentiment is also present here if you try to sell to big enterprises. We believe that doing evals, simulation, and A/B testing really really well is our competitive edge and what will enable us to solve large, sensitive use cases.We’d love to hear your thoughts and feedback! joelthelion 7 minutes ago | next \[–\] Your demo is nice, but why don't you show a call? That would be a lot more convincing...replylostmsu 9 minutes ago | prev | next \[–\] Have you tried your solution in noisy environments? Like a call to a person in a restaurant.replyhajrice 1 hour ago | prev | next \[–\] Impressive demo, just wish I didn't have to request a demo and could just sign up.Request a demo button also does nothing other than change the text on success - not sure if it even went through...replykevinwu2981 1 hour ago | parent | next \[–\] I got the demo request:) Let me reply to youreplyisabelleilyia 1 hour ago | prev | next \[–\] congrats! Some time ago we were giving client intake in legal a try with a voice AI product, but we never were able to get the success rate higher than really low numbers (especially with sensitive use cases like legal where people will reject the call instantly if it's a bot). Have you guys seen use cases like this? What ranges of success rates/engagement times have you seen?replykevinwu2981 50 minutes ago | parent | next \[–\] Why do you think it didn't work out in legal? We currently don't focus on that domain.In general, we currently have really high success rates with relatively constrained use cases, such as lead qualification and well scoped customer service use cases (e.g., appointment booking, travel cancellation).In general, voice AI is hard because WYSIWYG (there is no human in the loop between what the bot is saying and what the person on the other side gets to hear). Not sure about legal, but for more complex use cases (e.g., product refunds in retail), there are many permutations in how two different customers might frame the same issue and so it might be harder to accurately instruct the AI agent in a way to guarantee high automation results (given plentitude of edge cases).It is our belief therefore that voice AI works the best, when the bot is leading the conversation and it is always very clear what the next steps are...replykoakuma-chan 2 hours ago | prev | next \[–\] How do you compare to livekit? I don't see any docs on your website.replykevinwu2981 1 hour ago | parent | next \[–\] Livekit started as an infra for real-time audio/video applications. We are actually using them for WebRTC. They recently started growing into the voice AI space, but are still more of an infra solution, while we are an end-to-end platform.What sets us apart is multi-stage conversation modeling, out-of-the-box evals, and self-improvement!replyshahahmed 2 hours ago | prev | next \[–\] congrats on launching! how are ya'll managing evals?replykevinwu2981 2 hours ago | parent | next \[–\] Thanks! We provide eval templates that can be applied on specific stages or the whole conversation. Users can specify their own evals that can be as granular as they'd like. We're also working on conversation simulation feature that lets users quickly iterate on evals via simulating previous real conversations and seeing if the eval output aligns with human judgement.P.S. Arkadiy is locked out of his HN account due to the anti-procrastination settings. HN team, can you plz help? :)replytriyambakam 1 hour ago | prev \[–\] Is this comparable to VAPI?replykevinwu2981 1 hour ago | parent \[–\] Comparable in some aspects. Their focus is dev-tooling, while we are a mid-market and enterprise solution, geared towards enabling non-technical users at those companies, by using our tools, to easily create voice AI agents for customer service, lead qualification and ops use casesreply Consider applying for YC's Fall 2025 batch! Applications are open till Aug 4 Guidelines | FAQ | Lists | API | Security | Legal | Apply to YC | Contact Search: